#3 Docs: Quick start (#4)
oharastream/ohara-quickstart: HOW_TO_USE_EN.md

# How to use quickstart vm

## Prerequisites

- [VirtualBox 5.2+](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
- [Add Virtual Box network card](#add-virtual-box-network-card)

## Add Virtual Box network card

- Building Network Card through Virtual Box(**Tools -> Network -> Create**)
  and make sure the name is **vboxnet0** and DHCP Server is **enabled**

## Import OVA

- You can use VirtualBox user interface to import the OVA file(File -> Import Appliance)

## Login Oharastream

> - The default account and password are **Ohara** and **oharastream**

Reviewer: the account should be **ohara**, not **Ohara** :)

Author: oh! thanks. I forgot this

```
Welcome to Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.15.0-55-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

 * Kata Containers are now fully integrated in Charmed Kubernetes 1.16!
   Yes, charms take the Krazy out of K8s Kata Kluster Konstruction.

     https://ubuntu.com/kubernetes/docs/release-notes
Last login: Mon Sep 30 11:57:14 2019
HOST=192.168.56.104
OHARA_VER=0.8.0-SNAPSHOT
```

- After logging in, you can get relevant information and wait for the necessary environment settings to be established.

```
> FTP ready on ftp://ohara:oharastream@192.168.56.104:21

> Postgresql ready on jdbc:postgresql://192.168.56.104:5432/postgres (user=ohara, password=oharastream)

> SMB ready on smb://ohara:oharastream@192.168.56.104:445/ohara

> Ohara ready on http://192.168.56.104:5050
```

## Open Ohara Manager

> - Open Ohara Mnager with a browser (URL:http://${HOST_NAME}:5050)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open Ohara Manager with a browser (URL:http://${HOST_NAME}:5050)
```

Author: Thanks

> - Open Ohara Manager with a browser (URL:http://${HOST_NAME}:5050)

Reviewer: It is OK to use an example url here, I think?
For example,
Open Ohara Manager with a browser : [http://192.168.56.104:5050](http://192.168.56.104:5050)

Author: ok thanks

> ## Add Node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add a new node
```

1. Click Menu **Nodes**
2. Click **NEW NODE**

> 3. Type Node (${HOST} or ${IP})

Reviewer: Since it is a quick start VM, I think we only have 1 node could use :)
In here, it is OK to use:
3. Type Node : 192.168.56.104

Author: ok thanks

4. Type Port **22**
5. Type User **ohara**
6. Type Password **oharastream**
7. Click **TEST CONNECTION**
8. Click **ADD**

> - After the addition is completed, you can see the established Node on the Nodes page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- After the node was added, you can see the newly created node on the Nodes page.
```

> ## Create Workspaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a workspace
```

1. Click Menu **Workspaces**
2. Click **NEW WORKSPACE**
3. Type name **wk00**
4. Select Node **${HOST} or ${IP}**
5. Click **NEW PLUGIN**
6. Upload file **postgresql-1.jdbc.jar**
7. Select **postgresql-1.jdbc.jar**
8. Click **ADD**

> - Waiting for setup to complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- And wait for the setup to complete. 
```

## Create Two Topics

1. Click Menu **Workspaces**
2. Click **wk00 Action**
3. Click **TOPICS**
4. Click **NEW TOPIC**
5. Type Topic name **topic00**
6. Type patitions **1**
7. Type Repliction factor **1**

> 8. Click **ADD**

Reviewer 2: You should have a new topic added on your page now. Please repeat the steps in the above to create another topic

9. Click **TOPICS**
10. Click **NEW TOPIC**
11. Type Topic name **topic01**
12. Type patitions **1**
13. Type Repliction factor **1**
14. Click **ADD**

> ## Upload Stream Jar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Upload a stream Jar
```

1. Click Menu **Workspaces**
2. Click **wk00 Action**
3. Click **STREAM JARS**
4. Click **NEW JAR**
5. Upload file **ohara-streamapp.jar**

> ## Add Pipelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add a pipeline
```

1. Click Menu **Piplines**
2. Click **NEW PIPELINE**
3. Type Pipeline name **pipeline**
4. Select Workspace name **wk00**
5. Click **ADD**

> ### Add JDBC source connector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add a JDBC source connector
```

1. Click source connector icon
2. Select **com.island.ohara.connector.jdbc.source.JDBCSourceConnector**
3. Click **ADD**
4. Type name **jdbc**
5. Click **ADD**

> ### Add Two Topic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add Two Topics
```

1. Click topic icon
2. Select **topic00**
3. Click **ADD**
4. Click topic icon
5. Select **topic01**
6. Click **ADD**

> ### Add Stream APP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add a stream APP
```

1. Click stream app icon
2. Select **ohara-streamapp.jar**
3. Type name **streamapp**
4. Click **ADD**

> ### Add FTP sink connector

Reviewer 2: Please edit all the titles as the previous suggestion...

Author: ok thanks

1. Click sink connector icon
2. Select **com.island.ohara.connector.ftp.FtpSink**
3. Click **ADD**
4. Type name **ftp**
5. Click **ADD**

> ## Use Pipeline

Reviewer 2: ?

> ### Setting jdbc connector

Reviewer 2: Setup a JDBC connector

Reviewer 2: Ooops, it should be __Set up__ not __Setup__

3. Type user name **ohara**
4. Type password **oharastream**
5. Type table name **employees**
6. Type timestamp column name **create_at**
7. Click CORE tabs
8. Select Topics **topic00**
9. Click **TEST YOUR CONFIGS**

- Verify that the settings are correct

### Setting streamapp

1. Select streamapp
2. Type column name **employee_id,first_name**
3. Click CORE tabs
4. Select From topic of data consuming from **topic00**
5. Select To topic of data produce to **topic01**
6. Type Instances **1**

- Verify that the settings are correct

### Setting ftp sink connector

1. Select ftp connector
2. Type Output folder **output**
3. File Need Header **enabled**
4. Type Host [**\${FTP_HOST}**](#login-oharastream)
5. Type Port [**\${FTP_PORT}**](#login-oharastream)
6. Type User **ohara**
7. Type Password **oharastream**
8. Click CORE tabs
9. Select Topics **topic01**
10. Click **TEST YOUR CONFIGS**

- Verify that the settings are correct

### Start Pipeline

1. Click Operate **START_ICON**

- Wait a minute and you can see that all connectors on the graph turn green and metrics are displayed to indicate that the service started successfully.

### Check Output file

> 1. Enter URL in browser [**\${FTP_URL}**](#login-oharastream)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter the URL in browser's address bar [**\${FTP_URL}**](#login-oharastream)
```

Author: Thanks

> # How to use quickstart vm

Reviewer 3: How to use quickstart vm -> How to use Ohara Quickstart VM

Author: Ok thanks.

> 

Reviewer 3: It would be better that here have TOC(table of content).
[This tool](https://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/) maybe have some help.

## Prerequisites

> - [VirtualBox 5.2+](https://www.virtualbox.org/): ohara-quickstart only supports Version 5.2 or above of VirualBox

Author: Ok thanks.

- [Add Virtual Box network card](#add-virtualbox-network-card): ohara-quickstart requires a network card to enable VM to properly connect to LAN computers

## Import OVA

- You can use VirtualBox user interface to import the OVA file(File -> Import Appliance)

## Add VirtualBox network card

### Windows user

1. Create new network card
2. Setting network card in vm

### Create new network card

![create_network_windows](vm/images/win_add_network.png)

> - Click Global Tools and then click Create, ensure that the DHCP option is selected to see that the network card has been set up in Windows.

Reviewer 3: It would be better that put the description before the image. :slightly_smiling_face: 
Please alse whole document, thanks!

Author: Ok thanks.

### Setting network card in vm

![setting_network_windows](vm/images/win_setting_network.png)

- Select the imported ohara-quickstart, click Setting, click Network, click adapter2, select Host-only Adapter, and select the newly added network card.

### Mac and Linux user

1. Create new network card
2. Setting network card in vm

### Create new network card

![create_network_mac](vm/images/mac_add_network.png)

- Click Tools and then click Create, ensure that the DHCP option is selected to see that the network card has been set up in mac or linux.

### Setting network card in vm

![setting_network_mac](vm/images/mac_setting_network.png)

- Select the imported ohara-quickstart, click Setting, click Network, click adapter2, select Host-only Adapter, and select the newly added network card.

> ## Login Oharastream

Reviewer 3: Oharastream -> OharaStream

Author: Ok thanks.

- The default account and password are **ohara** and **oharastream**

```
Welcome to Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.15.0-55-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/advantage

 * Kata Containers are now fully integrated in Charmed Kubernetes 1.16!
   Yes, charms take the Krazy out of K8s Kata Kluster Konstruction.

     https://ubuntu.com/kubernetes/docs/release-notes
Last login: Mon Sep 30 11:57:14 2019
HOST=192.168.56.104
OHARA_VER=0.8.0-SNAPSHOT

> ```

Reviewer 3: Why here have K8S info?

Author: This information was generated when I was founded.

Author: I'll build ova again. That information will no longer be displayed.

- After logging in, you can get relevant information and wait for the necessary environment settings to be established.

```
> FTP ready on ftp://ohara:oharastream@192.168.56.104:21

> Postgresql ready on jdbc:postgresql://192.168.56.104:5432/postgres (user=ohara, password=oharastream)

> SMB ready on smb://ohara:oharastream@192.168.56.104:445/ohara

> Ohara ready on http://192.168.56.104:5050
```

> 

Author: v

- Click topic icon
- Select **topic00**
- Click **ADD**

![new_topic](vm/images/new_topic.png)

- Click topic icon
- Select **topic01**
- Click **ADD**

![new_topic2](vm/images/new_topic2.png)

### Add a stream APP

- Click stream app icon
- Select **ohara-streamapp.jar**

![new_stream](vm/images/new_stream.png)

- Type name **stream**
- Click **ADD**

![new_stream_name](vm/images/new_stream_name.png)

### Add FTP sink connector

- Click sink connector icon
- Select **com.island.ohara.connector.ftp.FtpSink**
- Click **ADD**

![new_sink_connector](vm/images/new_sink_connector.png)

- Type name **ftp**
- Click **ADD**

![new_sink_connector_name](vm/images/new_sink_connector_name.png)

## Use Pipeline Graph

### Setting jdbc connector

- Select jdbc connector
- Type jdbc url [**\${POSTGRESQL_URL}**](#login-oharastream)
- Type user name **ohara**
- Type password **oharastream**
- Type table name **employees**
- Type timestamp column name **create_at**

![setting_jdbc_common](vm/images/setting_jdbc_common.png)

- Click CORE tabs
- Select Topics **topic00**
- Click **TEST YOUR CONFIGS**
- Verify that the settings are correct

![setting_jdbc_core](vm/images/setting_jdbc_core.png)

> ### Setting streamapp

Reviewer 3: streamapp -> StreamApp

Author: Ok thanks.

- Select streamapp
- Type column name **employee_id,first_name**

![setting_stream_common](vm/images/setting_stream_common.png)

- Click CORE tabs
- Select From topic of data consuming from **topic00**
- Select To topic of data produce to **topic01**
- Type Instances **1**
- Verify that the settings are correct

![setting_stream_core](vm/images/setting_stream_core.png)

> ### Setting ftp sink connector

Reviewer 3: ftp sink connector -> FTP Sink Connector

Author: Ok thanks.
